Issue #88 - application attachments (#110)
margo/specification: system-design/app-interoperability/application-package-definition.md

# Application Package

The application package, which is used to [distribute an application](../margo-overview/application-package-overview.md), comprises the following elements:
 
- The **application description**: a YAML document with the element `kind` defined as `ApplicationDescription`, which is stored in a file (for example named `margo.yaml`) and contains information about the application's [metadata](../margo-api-reference/workload-api/application-package-api/application-description.md#metadata-attributes) (e.g., description, icon, release notes, license file, etc.), application supported [deployment configurations](../../margo-api-reference/workload-api/application-package-api/application-description.md#deploymentprofile-attributes) (e.g,  Helm charts, Compose Archive), and [configurable application parameters](../margo-api-reference/workload-api/application-package-api/application-description.md#defining-configurable-application-parameters).  There SHALL be only one YAML file in the package root of kind `ApplicationDescription`.

> - The **resources**, which are additional attachments or information associated with the application (e.g., manual, icon, release notes, license file, etc.) that can be provided in an [application catalog](../margo-overview/technical-lexicon.md) or [marketplace](../margo-overview/technical-lexicon.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The **resources**, which are additional files associated with the application (e.g., manual, icon, release notes, license file, etc.) that may be used to display more information about the application in a UI such as an [application catalog](../margo-overview/technical-lexicon.md) or [marketplace](../margo-overview/technical-lexicon.md) or other informative outputs.
```

Author: added

The application package has the following file/folder structure:

```yaml
/                                  # REQUIRED top-level directory 
└── <application description>.yaml # REQUIRED a YAML document with element 'kind' as 'ApplicationDescription' stored in a file  (e.g., 'margo.yaml')

> └── resources                      # OPTIONAL folder with application attachments (e.g., icon, license file, release notes) that can be displayed in an application catalog

Reviewer: ```suggestion
└── resources                      # OPTIONAL folder with application files (e.g., icon, license file, release notes) that may be used for displaying additional information about the application
```

Author: done

```

An application aggregates one or more [OCI Containers](https://github.com/opencontainers). While the application package is made available in an [application registry](./workload-orch-to-app-reg-interaction.md), the referenced OCI artifacts are stored in a remote or [local registry](../app-interoperability/local-registries.md). 

> **Note**  
> Application catalogs or marketplaces are out of scope for Margo. The exact requirements of the marketing material shall be defined by the application marketplace beyond outlined mandatory content.

The [deployment profiles](../margo-api-reference/workload-api/application-package-api/application-description.md#deploymentprofile-attributes) specified in the application description SHALL be defined as Helm Chart components AND/OR Compose components.

- To target devices, which run Kubernetes, applications must be packaged as Helm charts using [Helm (version 3)](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/charts/).

> - To target devices, which deploy applications using [Compose](https://www.compose-spec.io/), applications must be packaged as what margo calls a Compose Archive, i.e., a tarball file containing the `compose.yaml` file and any additional artifacts referenced by the Compose file (e.g., configuration files, environment variable files, etc.). Margo recommends to digitally sign this package and to specify the location of the public key in the `ApplicationDescription` (see `keyLocation` [here](../margo-api-reference/workload-api/application-package-api/application-description/#componentproperties-attributes)). When digitally signing the package PGP encryption MUST be used.

Reviewer 2: Missing upercase 'M' for Margo and broken link.
```suggestion
- To target devices, which deploy applications using [Compose](https://www.compose-spec.io/), applications must be packaged as what Margo calls a Compose Archive, i.e., a tarball file containing the `compose.yaml` file and any additional artifacts referenced by the Compose file (e.g., configuration files, environment variable files, etc.). Margo recommends to digitally sign this package and to specify the location of the public key in the `ApplicationDescription` (see `keyLocation` [here](../../margo-api-reference/workload-api/application-package-api/application-description/#componentproperties-attributes)). When digitally signing the package PGP encryption MUST be used.
```

Author: done

> **Investigation Needed**: Question: do we need to specify the location of a SHA256 hash for the Compose Archive also (similar to the PGP key) in the ApplicationDescription? 
> We will also discuss how we should handle secure container registries that require a username and password.
>
> **Investigation Needed**: We need to determine what impact, if any, using 3rd party helm charts has on being Margo compliant.
>
> **Investigation Needed**: Missing in the current specification are ways to define dependencies (e.g., application dependencies) as well as required infrastructure services such as storage, message queues/bus, reverse proxy, or authentication/authorization/accounting.

If either one cannot be implemented it MAY be omitted but Margo RECOMMENDS defining [deployment profiles](../margo-api-reference/workload-api/application-package-api/application-description.md#deploymentprofile-attributes) as both Helm chart **AND** Compose components to strengthen interoperability and applicability.

> **Note**

> > A device running the application will only install the application using either Compose Archive or Helm Charts but not both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> A device running the application will only install the application using either the Compose Archives or the Helm Charts, but not both.
```

Author: done
